We were in a store,
and a guy in that store
told us to put
our uniforms on.
"What the hell are
you talking about?"
He says...
"The USA is in
a war with Japan."
We couldn't
believe it.
Well, our country
was attacked.
It's different.
It wasn't like
Korea or Vietnam.
We was attacked.
And, you know,
it was a feeling that...
maybe we're just
dumb country people but--
where I come from,
but a lot of us volunteered.
Who would like to volunteer
for the Tank Corps?
for the Air Force?
Who would like to volunteer
for the Navy or whatever?
And then, they said,
"Who would like to volunteer
for the Airborne?"
Somebody says,
"What the hell's
the Airborne?"
Nobody ever heard of it.
We came from
a small, small town
and three fellas in that town
were-- that were "4F,"
committed suicide
because they couldn't go.
A different time.
I did things.
I didn't do 'em
for medals,
for accolades.
I did 'em because...
it's what had to be done.
The guy says, "Would you
jump out of airplanes?
"You know, you got
all your army equipment
and you jump out of airplanes
to fight the enemy."
These guys, they said,
"Go to hell."
Nobody put up
their hands.
And then, I don't know
what it was brought it up,
but the guy giving
the speech was saying,
"But you get paid
$50 a month more."
So, that made it
a hundred bucks.
(theme music playing)
♪ ♪
(people chattering)
(chattering)
(man shouting)
Okay, boys, let's get
this gear stowed.
Fox Company,
we go in five.
Man:
No more lip out of you.
Man 2:
Sergeant Maynard?
Man: No.
Man 2:
Can you tell him
to get back to the--
Man 3: In the name
of the Father, the Son,
and the Holy Ghost.
Meehan:
1st platoon,
draw small arms.
Do you need a hand,
Lieutenant?
Man:
Easy Company!
Listen up!
Gather up around me.
Just move it up!
C'mon, gentlemen.
Let's go!
Now, the Channel coast is
socked in with rain and fog.
High winds
on the drop zone.
No jump tonight.
(men griping)
The invasion
has been postponed.
We're on
a 24-hour stand-down.
Son of a bitch.
Drill Sergeants,
take charge.
Well. This is
quite a surprise.
Not particularly.
It so happens
I rather expected it.
Man:
Well, I can't see how
you people can pass up $80,000
for the cause.
Woman:
For whose cause?
If you're so interested
in serving a cause,
why don't you
join the Army?
Man: Oh...
I'm "4F."
You look "1A" to me.
Hey, you don't look
so bad yourself.
Man on film:
Well, it's my arteries.
Woman:
Should you be giving blood?
I think
it's clearing up.
You think
it's clearing up?
No.
I think
it's clearing up.
(sighs)
How are your men?
They'll be fine.
Five o'clock
in New York.
Four o'clock
in Chicago.
Happy hour, huh?
(chuckles) Yeah.
Happy hour.
A couple of drinks,
maybe an early dinner
before the theater.
A civilized place
for civilized men.
Should've been
born earlier, Nix.
What, and give up
all this?
We'll go to Chicago,
I'll take you there.
Yeah.
We'll see.
Actually, you know
who's from there?
Who?
Oh, him.
712 days
of that son of a bitch
and here we are.
♪ ♪
(flies buzzing)
You people are
at the position of attention.
Private Perconte, have you
been blousing your trousers
over your boots
like a paratrooper?
No, sir.
Then explain the creases
at the bottom.
No excuse, sir.
Volunteering
for the parachute infantry
is one thing, Perconte,
but you've got a long way
to prove that you belong here.
Your weekend pass
is revoked.
Name?
Luz, George.
Dirt in the rear
side aperture.
Pass revoked.
(bugle playing in distance)
When did you sew on these
chevrons, Sergeant Lipton?
Yesterday, sir.
Long enough
to notice this.
Revoked.
Sir.
Name?
Malarkey, Donald G.
Malarkey? Malarkey's slang
for bullshit, isn't it?
Yes, sir.
Rust on the butt plate
hinge spring,
Private Bullshit.
Revoked.
Name?
Liebgott, Joseph D., sir.
Rusty bayonet,
Liebgott.
You wanna
kill Germans?
Yes, sir.
Not with this.
I wouldn't take this
rusty piece of shit to war,
and I will not take you
to war in your condition.
Now, thanks to these men
and their infractions,
every man in the Company
who had a weekend pass,
has lost it.
Change into your PT gear,
we're running Currahee.
2nd Platoon
fall out.
You have two minutes.
Man: Fall out!
I ain't going up
that hill.
Hey, Perconte,
what are you thinking of,
blousin' your pants?
Shut up, Martin, alright?
He gigged everybody.
Yeah, well,
you should know better.
Don't give him
no excuses.
Excuses?
Why don't you come here,
look at these trousers,
get down and you tell me
if there's a crease on 'em?
Alright, let's go, on the road
in PT formation.
Let's move,
move, move!
Perconte, let's go,
Perconte.
Private White, why are you
not in your PT gear?
I asked you
a question, Private.
(sighs)
Oh, Easy Company.
And while you're running,
don't worry,
we'll take your dames
to the movies for you.
Yeah, good, they need
some female company.
Lieutenant:
Where do we run?
Together: Currahee.
What does
"Currahee" mean?
We stand alone.
Lieutenant :
How far up,
how far down?
Together:
Three miles up,
three miles down.
Lieutenant :
And what company
is this?
Easy Company.
And what do we do?
Stand alone.
Ow!
Do not help
that man!
Do not help that man.
We do not stop.
♪ ♪
You've got 13 minutes to get
to the top of this mountain
if you wanna serve
in the paratroopers.
Hi-ho, Silver!
C'mon, you can
make it up there.
C'mon now, c'mon,
Alley, let's go.
C'mon, Guarnere.
Christenson, c'mon. C'mon!
I never thought I'd see
the day, Private Wynn.
We are coming on
23 minutes.
That may be good enough
for the rest of the 506,
but that is not good enough
for Easy Company.
♪ ♪
(men chanting)
Get us some chicken
and get us some bread.
(chanting continues)
We can make it.
We can do this, c'mon.
Come on, Talbert.
C'mon, c'mon, c'mon.
I'm gonna
say something.
To who?
Lieutenant Winters.
What is it?
Permission to speak, sir?
Permission granted.
Sir, we got
nine companies, sir.
That we do.
Well, how come we're
the only company
marching every Friday night,
12 miles, full pack,
in the pitch dark?
Why do you think,
Private Randleman?
Lieutenant Sobel
hates us, sir.
does not hate Easy Company,
Private Randleman.
He just hates you.
(laughter)
Thank you, sir.
He hates him back.
He hates you,
too, Muck.
Lieutenant Winters, I want
canteens out of belts
with the caps
unscrewed.
Easy Company,
canteens out and open.
On my command, they will pour
the contents onto the ground.
On the CO's order, you will
upend your canteen.
Now, Lieutenant.
Pour 'em.
Who is this?
Christenson.
Why is there no water
in your canteen?
You drank from your
canteen, didn't you?
Sir, I--
Lieutenant Winters.
Yes, sir.
Was this man ordered to not
drink from his canteen
during the Friday
night march?
He was, sir.
Private Christenson, you have
disobeyed a direct order.
You will fill
your canteen
and repeat all 12 miles
of the march immediately.
Yes, sir.
Fall out!
What in the name of God
are you doing with my company?
You're late and
you allow troopers
to disobey
direct orders?
No excuse, sir.
You're making me
look bad, Lieutenant.
This is not
Dog Company.
Fox Company.
This-- this is
Easy Company.
And under my command,
this will be the first
and finest company
in this regiment.
I want the names
of six men...
their infractions
and your disciplinary
recommendations
on my desk
by 0130.
Is that clear?
What infractions, sir?
Find some.
So, what'd you do?
Picked six men and gave 'em
latrine duty.
The lucky six?
McDonald, Toye,
Perconte...
Lipton, Muck,
and Guarnere.
Why them?
It was their turn.
(chuckles)
Sobel's a genius.
I had a headmaster just
like him in prep school.
I know the type.
Lewis...
Michelangelo's a genius.
Beethoven's a genius.
You know a man
in this company
who wouldn't
double-time Currahee
with a full pack
just to piss in that guy's
morning coffee?
Sobel:
Let's go, let's go.
Man: Go!
One thousand, two thousand,
three thousand, four thousand.
Stand in the door.
Man: Go.
One thousand,
two thousand.
You just broke both
your legs, Private Gordon.
Are you trying to
get yourself killed?
No, sir.
Stand in the door.
(whistle tweets)
Man: Move it,
move it, move it!
(loud chattering)
Move it, move it,
move it, move it!
Shit.
♪ ♪
Now to the wall,
to the wall.
Over as a team.
Go on, against the wall.
Jesus, what
the hell is this?
That's pig guts, boy.
Goddammit!
Sobel:
Why are you here,
Private Gordon?
I wanna be in
the airborne, sir.
I don't believe you.
Why are you here,
Private Gordon?
(loudly)
I wanna be in
the airborne, sir.
You have 50 minutes
to the top and back,
and I will be
watching you.
What are you
waiting for?
♪ ♪
Easy Company has
the finest performance record
in the entire
2nd battalion.
I believe every bit of that
is thanks to you.
Congratulations,
Captain Sobel.
Thank you, sir.
Isn't that Lieutenant Winters
leading Easy Company in PT?
Yes, sir.
He's a damned
good man.
I was planning on giving him
a set of these today.
Why don't you
do it?
He'd be proud
to get 'em from you.
Pornography,
contraband.
Non-regulation clothing,
This man had
200 prophylactic kits
in his footlocker.
How in the name of God was
he gonna have the strength
to fight the war?
How is it Private--
Private Tipper
has spare time
for so much correspondence?
Captain, are personal letters
to be considered contraband?
(sniffs)
These men aren't paratroopers
yet, Lieutenant.
They have
no personal property.
What is this?
Anybody?
Er, it's a can
of peaches, sir.
Lieutenant Nixon thinks
this is a can of peaches.
That is incorrect,
Lieutenant.
Your weekend pass
is canceled.
This is United States
Army property
which was taken,
without authorization,
from my mess facility,
and I will not tolerate
thievery in my unit.
Whose footlocker
is this?
Private Parkes, sir.
Get rid of him.
All weekend passes
are canceled.
Officers included.
Carry on.
Lieutenant Winters.
Colonel Sink has seen fit
to promote you.
As 1st lieutenant,
you'll serve
as my executive officer.
Congratulations.
Thank you, sir.
And, as a test of your
organizational skills
and command potential...
I am designating you...
mess officer
for 14 days.
Report to the mess kitchen
at 0515 hours.
Company breakfast
to be served at 0600.
Yes, sir.
Oh, and, Dick...
There's rain
forecast tomorrow,
so the company will have
a light afternoon
of lecture and
classroom instruction.
I think a special meal
before their afternoon off
would be a welcome
change of pace.
Would you agree?
Yes, sir.
I like spaghetti.
(men chattering)
Hold on, more coming.
These guys are
packing it away.
This stuff
is orange.
Spaghetti ain't supposed
to be orange.
This ain't spaghetti.
This is Army noodles
with ketchup.
You ain't
gotta eat it.
Oh, c'mon, Gonorrhea,
as a fellow Italian,
you should know that calling
this crap spaghetti
is a mortal sin.
You don't want it,
I'll have it.
No, no, no,
I'm eating here.
Hey, get outta here.
Orders changed,
get up!
Lectures
are canceled.
Easy Company
is running up Currahee.
Move, move!
Three miles up,
three miles down.
Hi-ho, Silver!
Let's go, let's go.
You're a washout,
Private Hoobler!
You should pack up
both your ears and go home.
Looks like
Gordon's done.
Aren't you, Gordon?
You finished?
You do not deserve
to get your wings.
Private Randleman,
you look tired.
There's an ambulance
waiting for you
at the bottom
of the hill.
It can all be
over right now.
No more pain,
no more Currahee.
No more
Captain Sobel.
(chanting)
We pull upon the risers,
we fall upon the grass,
we never land upon our feet,
we always hit our ass.
Hidee hidee, Christ almighty,
who the hell are we?
Zim-zam, goddamn,
we're Airborne Infantry.
We pull upon the risers,
we fall upon the grass,
We never land upon our feet,
we always hit our ass.
Hidee tidee, Christ almighty,
who the hell are we?
Zim-zam, goddamn,
we're Airborne Infantry. Hey!
Man: So, do we feel
like we're ready to be
army paratroopers?
Together:
Yes, Sergeant.
Sergeant:
I hope so.
This'll be
the first of five exits
from a C-47 aircraft
scheduled for today.
Man:
Get ready!
Stand up.
Hook up.
Sergeant:
Upon successful completion
of your fifth and final jump,
you'll be certified
Army Paratroopers.
Check equipment!
Sound-off for
equipment check!
Nine okay.
Eight okay.
Seven okay.
Six okay.
Five okay.
Four okay.
Three okay.
Two okay.
One okay.
Sergeant:
There'll be a lot of men
dropping from the sky today.
Hopefully, under
deployed canopies.
Man:
Stand in the door!
I guarantee you're gonna
love it, Lieutenant.
Go, go!
Jumping from
1,000 feet AGL,
in sticks of 12 jumpers
per aircraft.
All you have
to do is remember
what you were taught...
and I guarantee you gravity
will take care of the rest.
Go, go, go, go!
Go, go, go, go, go!
Go, go, go!
Damn it.
Sergeant:
And, gentlemen,
rest assured,
any refusals in the aircraft
or at the door...
and I guarantee you,
you will...
be out of
the Airborne.
Four okay.
Three okay.
Two okay.
One okay.
Man:
Stand in the door.
Go!
1,000, 2,000, 3,000,
4,000, 5,000, 6,000,
7,000, 8,000, 9,000!
(cheering)
Hi-ho, Silver.
♪ ♪
Now just think, if you had
any class or style like me,
somebody might
mistake you for somebody.
You mean like your
fucking sergeant?
I'm just kidding.
Congratulations,
Martin.
(mimicking Sobel)
Corporal Toye, there will be
no leaning in my company.
Are those dusty
jump wings?
How do you expect
to slay the Huns
with dust on
your jump wings?
Luz, just give me
a drink.
Hell of an idea, Joe.
There you go.
Three miles up,
three miles down.
Man:
Ten-hut!
Well at ease,
paratroopers.
Good evening,
Easy Company.
Men:
Evening, sir.
Now, Parachute Infantry
is a brand new concept
in American
military history.
But by God, the 506 is gonna
forge that brand new concept
into victory.
Men:
Yes, sir.
I want you to know that
I'm damned proud
of each and every
one of you.
Now, you deserve
this party.
Thank you,
Sergeant Grant.
Sir.
So, I want you
to have fun...
and remember
our motto...
Currahee!
Men: Currahee!
(cheering)
(crickets chirping)
Petty. Map. C'mon.
(mutters)
Ah, Christ.
We're in
the wrong position.
We're textbook position
for ambush, sir.
We should sit tight,
let the enemy team come
into our killing zone.
They're right out
there somewhere.
Let's just get 'em.
Sir, we have
perfect cover here.
Lieutenant,
deploy your troops.
2nd Platoon,
move out.
What?
Tactical column.
Captain, you've
just been killed,
along with 95 percent
of your company.
Your outfit?
Easy Company,
2nd battalion 506th.
Man:
Leave three wounded men
on the ground
and report back
to the assembly area.
(mutters)
Goddammit.
You, you, you.
Well, what are
you gonna do?
Nothing, just keep
training the men.
Am I interrupting?
No, no.
Lieutenant Lewis Nixon.
Lieutenant Harry Welsh,
just in from the 82nd.
Congratulations
on the promotion.
Ah, thanks, if you
wanna call it that.
You'll learn him
pretty quickly--
no flaws, no vices,
no sense of humor.
Just like your chums
up at Battalion staff.
What's up?
I'm hearing a lot
of rumblings.
Sobel?
Mmm.
Just talking
about that.
So, he gets a little
jumpy in the field?
Hmm-mmm.
He gets jumpy
and then you get killed.
That's nice.
Yeah, listen,
if we discuss it,
I think it should just
be amongst ourselves.
Oh, absolutely.
2nd Platoon ready?
Ready, sir.
Then get them
in formation.
We're moving out.
Yes, sir.
(chattering)
(laughing)
Toye:
Shut up, Cobb.
Eh, you gotta
admit it.
He's got
no chance.
Either the Krauts
will get him,
or one of us.
Liebgott:
Who, Sobel?
He screwed up
one maneuver.
Well, you know, I'm always
fumbling with grenades.
It would be easy if one went
off by accident, you know?
Well, now,
they must have put him
in charge for a reason.
Yeah, 'cause the army wouldn't
make a mistake, right, Shift?
Going my way?
Wherever the train
takes me.
Where do you suppose
that might be?
I haven't got a clue.
Yeah, c'mon, take a guess.
Atlantic, Pacific,
Atlantic?
I'm not
the intelligence officer.
Mmm.
Well, as such,
I of course know,
but if I told you,
I'd have to kill you.
So, don't tell me.
New York City.
Troop ship.
England.
We're invading Europe,
my friend.
Fortress Europa.
Since when
do I drink?
If I thought you'd drink it,
I wouldn't offer it to you.
Nix?
What are you gonna do
when you get into combat?
Oh, I have every confidence
in my scrounging abilities.
And I have a case of Vat 69
hidden in your footlocker.
(laughs)
Really?
Oh, yeah.
Morning.
Mmm.
This could turn into
a real nice trip.
(clicking)
(ship bell dings)
(chattering)
Sobel:
"Dear sir or madam,
"soon your son will
drop from the sky
"to engage
and defeat the enemy.
"Your frequent letters
of love and encouragement
"will arm him
with a fighting heart.
"With that he cannot fail,
"but will win glory
for himself,
"make you proud of him,
and his country ever grateful
"for his service
in its hour of need.
"Signed Herbert M. Sobel,
Captain Commanding."
(boat horn blares)
Muck:
Right now,
some lucky bastard's headed
for the South Pacific.
Oh, what I would give.
He's gonna get billeted
on some tropical island...
Malarkey: Keep talking.
...sitting under a palm tree
with six naked native girls...
Oh yeah.
...helping him
cut up coconuts,
so he can hand-feed 'em
to the flamingos.
Flamingos are mean.
They bite.
So do the naked
native girls.
With any luck.
Hey, guys, I'm glad
I'm going to Europe.
Hitler gets one of these
right across the windpipe.
Roosevelt changes Thanksgiving
to Joe Toye Day,
and pays me 10 grand
a year for the rest
of my fucking life.
What if we don't
get to Europe?
What if they send us
to North Africa?
My brother's
in North Africa.
He says it's hot.
Really, it's hot in Africa?
Shut up.
The point is, it don't
matter where we go.
Once we get into combat,
the only person you can trust
is yourself and the fella
next to you.
Hey, as long as
he's a paratrooper.
Oh, yeah?
And what if that paratrooper
turns out to be Sobel?
If I'm next to Sobel
in combat, I'm moving
on down the line.
Hook up with
some other officer,
like Heyliger
or Winters.
I like Winters,
he's a good man.
But when the bullets
start flying,
I don't know
if I want a Quaker
doing my fighting for me.
Muck:
How do you know
he's a Quaker?
He ain't Catholic.
Malarkey:
Neither's Sobel.
That prick's
the son of Abraham.
He's what?
He's a Jew.
(mutters)
I'm a Jew.
Congratulations.
Get your nose
out of my face.
(men shouting)
What's all
that about?
Gonorrhea called
Sobel a Jew.
Liebgott took offense
'cause he's a Jew too.
Pfft!
Fighting over Sobel,
that's smart.
(birds chirping)
Man: Attack!
(men shouting, grunting)
No, you wanna
kill him!
Man 2:
Parry right,
parry left.
Thrust!
Take cover.
Okay.
(clears throat)
Yesterday, we talked about
magnetic declination
and the left add,
right subtract rule.
Today we're gonna
put it into practice.
There are two basic types
of fighting positions.
The first is
the prepared position.
The advantages
of a prepared position
are that it gives you
cover and concealment.
Sink:
Commence fire!
We'll then maneuver,
right in through these trees.
At the same time,
our 2nd Platoon,
in this particular case,
moves over here.
He's then gonna close
with and kill or capture
that German.
(panting)
Sobel's late.
Why is there
a fence here?
There should be
no fence here.
Tipper!
Yes, sir.
Give me the map.
Perconte, Luz.
Get the men,
get 'em b--
take cover behind
those trees.
Luz: Alright,
you heard the word.
Perconte: Yes, sir.
Let's go. Move it out, fellas.
You heard him. Move out.
There should be no--
there should be no fence here.
Um...
(clearing throat)
we could go over it, sir.
Really? That's not the point!
Where are the goddamn--
(softly)
where the goddamn
hell are we?
Perconte?
Yeah.
Sobel's lost again,
right?
Yeah, he's lost.
Fucking Christ.
Luz!
Can you do
Major Horton?
(mimics Horton)
Does a wild bear crap
in the woods, son?
Shh, shh, shh.
Maybe the good major
can goose this schmuck.
Get us moving?
(normal voice)
No way.
Oh yeah, yes.
You gotta,
you gotta. C'mon.
Alright,
just this once.
Shh, shh.
Three, five,
six, eight, three, three.
Isn't that
the intersection?
No, sir, it's here.
You're a full
grid off.
(mutters)
Goddammit.
(Luz mimics Horton)
Is there a problem,
Captain Sobel?
Who said that?
Who broke silence?
I think it's
Major Horton, sir.
Major Horton?
What is he--
did he join us?
I think maybe he's moving
between the platoons, sir.
What is the goddamn
holdup, Mr. Sobel?
(men chuckling)
A fence, sir.
Um, God.
A barbed wire fence.
Luz:
Oh, that dog
just ain't gonna hunt.
(stifled laughter)
(normal voice)
Shut it! Shh, shh!
(mimics Horton)
Now, you cut that fence
and get this goddamn platoon
on the move!
Yes, sir!
Where are my goddamn
wire cutters?
We have to move.
Sir, without Captain Sobel
and 1st platoon?
It's a "T" intersection.
We improvise.
Double envelopment,
lay down a base of fire
to cut the road
in all directions.
Hook right
with 1st squad.
Tell Guarnere to
move left with 2nd.
I'll be right up
the middle with 3rd.
Go.
Yes, sir.
Deary me.
(dog barking)
Bloody hell.
You've done
it now, yanks.
You've captured me.
Sobel:
Hi-ho, Silver!
Would that be
the enemy?
As a matter
of fact, yes.
Good work,
2nd platoon.
We took
the objective.
Strayer:
Who is the idiot
who cut that man's fence?
Sobel:
I was ordered to, sir.
By whom?
Major Horton, sir.
Major Horton?
Yes, sir.
Major Horton
told you to do that?
Yes, sir.
Major Horton ordered you
to cut the fence?
Yes, he did.
Major Horton
is on leave in London.
Get those cows
out of here.
Your left, your left,
your left, right, left.
Lieutenant Winters.
With Captain Sobel's
compliments, sir.
Lieutenant.
Mmm.
Oh, for crying
out loud.
Misspelled "court-martial."
Wide open!
Yes!
No, sir,
I do not understand.
Your orders to me were
to inspect the latrines
at 1000 hours.
From 0930 to 0955
I was censoring
the enlisted men's mail
by order
of Colonel Strayer.
At 1000 hours I followed
your orders to the minute.
I changed that time
to 0945.
No one told me, sir.
I telephoned.
I'm quartered with a family
that has no telephone.
And sent a runner.
No runner found me,
Captain.
Irregardless,
when given a task to perform
by a ranking officer,
you should have delegated
your task
of latrine inspection
to another officer.
You failed to do so.
Were I to let
such a failure of duty
by my own XO go unpunished,
what kind of message
is that to the men?
I performed my duty
as I was ordered, sir.
And I disagree.
So, your options are
quite simple, Lieutenant.
Punishment for your offenses
will be denial
of a 48-hour pass
for 60 days.
Stand before me
at attention.
Or you may initiate
a letter of appeal
and request a trial
by court-martial.
You spend your weekends
on the base anyway, Dick.
Be a man,
take the punishment.
May I borrow
your pen, sir?
My endorsement, sir.
I request trial
by court-martial.
We lost Winters
to battalion mess.
You're shitting me.
No. Strayer did it,
while they try to figure out
the procedures
for his court-martial.
Well, Nixon better find
a loophole and get him out.
And if he don't?
Winters scrambles eggs
while the rest of us make
the big jump with Sobel.
Not me.
So we're going through
with this, right?
We've gotta
do something.
Yeah.
Alright.
Good.
But we'd all better be clear
of the consequences.
I don't care about
the consequences.
Johnny... we could be lined up
against a wall and shot.
Now, I'm ready
to face that.
And every one of us
had better be, too.
I will not follow
that man into combat.
Me neither.
Alright.
Then let's do it.
Guarnere:
"I hereby...
"no longer...
"wish to serve...
"as a non-commissioned
officer...
"in Easy Company."
Alright, boys.
Good luck.
I ought to have you
all shot!
This is nothing less than
an act of mutiny
while we prepare for
the goddamn invasion
of Europe.
Sergeant Harris.
Sir.
Turn in your stripes,
collect your gear.
You are hereby transferred
out of my regiment.
Sir.
Get out.
Sergeant Ranney.
Sir.
You consider yourself lucky,
I'm only busting you
to private.
All of you NCOs
have disgraced
the 101st Airborne.
You can
consider yourself lucky
that we are on the eve
of the largest action
in the history of warfare,
which leaves me no choice,
but to spare your lives.
Now, get out of my office
and get out of my sight.
Get.
Keep 'em coming,
that-a-boy.
That's it.
Sobel:
I can only
speculate, sir.
Most of the men would--
would never do this,
but... I believe just
a few of the sergeants
may have felt their loyalty
lay more to the platoon
than to the company.
And these few sergeants
convinced all of the other
NCOs in your company
to turn in
their stripes?
As staff sergeants,
they have a great amount
of influence, sir.
But as I say,
the rest are good men.
I know them,
I can work with them.
This business with
the Winters court-martial
has been
an unpleasant distraction.
Indeed--
indeed it has, sir.
However...
your command of Easy Company
has been exemplary.
Thank-- thank you, sir.
In fact...
except for the actions
of a few of your noncoms,
I believe you've fielded one
of the finest companies
of soldiers
I've ever seen.
Yes, sir.
Herbert, division
has established
a parachute training school
at Chilton Foliat.
The idea is for
non-infantry types who...
were vital to
the coming invasion,
such as doctors and chaplains,
to take jump training there.
Frankly, I can't think
of anyone more qualified
to command
such a school
than you are.
Sir?
I'm reassigning you
to Chilton Foliat.
♪ ♪
I'm losing
Easy Company?
The war effort
needs you elsewhere.
Permission to speak, sir?
Granted.
Is-- who-- who will
be replacing me?
Lieutenant Meehan
from Baker Company
is senior.
Good luck
at Chilton Foliat, Herbert.
Don't let us
down now.
No, sir.
Carry on.
♪ ♪
(men chattering)
Buck:
2nd platoon,
listen up.
I want the 1st squad and
"A" side tents right up there.
3rd squad,
second row...
Holy shit.
No, it's all right,
mate, we're Tommies.
Not bleedin' Boche.
Is all this real?
Yeah, yeah.
Well, some of it's
from the Hermans,
that somebody's
tailors knocked up,
for you lads, actually,
so, you can get
your mince pies
on some of this Jerry clobber,
if you know what I mean.
Not really.
Eh?
Hey, Mac,
you got a Luger?
I'm dying to get my hands
on a real Luger.
Yeah, go on then.
Quick butchers, yeah?
Boy, she sure
is a doozy.
Yeah, it's pukka, innit?
What?
Hey, Petty.
Hey, mate.
You're having a bath
if you think you're
half-inching that.
Oh, yeah. Sorry.
Well, good luck.
You too, mate.
What's up, Hoobs?
These men have been through
the toughest training
the army
has to offer.
Under the worst
possible circumstances.
And they volunteered
for it.
Christ, Dick, I was just
shooting craps with them.
It's not like--
You know why
they volunteered?
So, when things got really bad
the man in the foxhole
next to them
would be the best.
Not some draftee who's
gonna get him killed.
Are you ticked
because they like me?
Because I'm spending time
to get to know my soldiers?
I mean, c'mon, you've been
with these guys for, what,
two years?
I've been here
for six days.
You're gambling, Buck.
So what?
Soldiers do that.
I don't deserve
a reprimand for it.
What if you'd won?
What?
(slowly)
What if you'd won?
Never put yourself
in a position
where you can take
from these men.
Lieutenant Meehan?
Meehan: Enter.
On the last training jump,
I had a compass.
Close the flap.
Winters:
Then we turn left.
Meehan: Yeah.
Bearing zero, four, two...
12 minutes.
Then another left?
Yes.
Yeah.
Call it three,
five, eight...
for 10 and
a half minutes.
Green light,
right over Ramsbury.
Ramsbury.
Every single time.
Linear distance on
the grid of about...
Okay. Ramsbury.
Upottery.
So...
it's Normandy.
Nixon:
St. Marie du Mont.
Causeway number one.
Causeway number two.
The ultimate
field problem.
The estuary of
the Douve River
divides two beachheads,
code-named Utah, here,
and Omaha, here.
Seaborne Infantry will
hit these beaches in force
at a date and time
to be specified.
H-hour, D-Day.
Airborne's objective,
gentlemen,
is to take the town
of Careltan, or Carentan,
thus linking Utah
and Omaha into a single
continuous beachhead.
Meehan:
...linking Omah and Utah
into one continuous beachhead.
Each trooper will
learn this operation by heart
and know his and every other
outfits' mission
to the detail.
Lieutenant Meehan?
Yes, Dukeman.
Sir, are we
dropping tonight?
When it's time
for you to know,
we'll let you know.
In the meantime,
study these sand tables, maps,
and reconnaissance photos
until you can draw a map
of the area by memory.
Now, we will drop
behind this Atlantic Wall
five hours before
the 4th Infantry
lands at Utah.
And between our assembly area
and the battalion's objective,
there is
a German garrison
right here in this area,
St. Marie du Mont.
Easy Company will
destroy that garrison.
Three day supply of K-rations,
chocolate bars, charms candy,
powdered coffee,
sugar, and matches.
compass, bayonet,
entrenching tool,
ammunition, gas mask.
Musette bag with ammo,
my webbing, my .45, canteen,
two cartons of smokes,
Hawkins mine,
two grenades,
smoke grenade,
gamma grenade,
TNT,
this bullshit,
and a pair
of nasty skivvies.
What's your point?
You know, this stuff
weighs as much as I do.
I've still got my chute,
my reserve chute,
my Mae West, my M1.
Where are you keeping
your brass knuckles?
I could use some
brass knuckles.
Vest:
Sergeant Martin!
Hey, Vest,
anything for me?
No. Sergeant Martin.
Martin: J.W.!
Talbert!
Floyd.
Floyd M. Here.
Heavy.
Your condoms?
I don't know,
probably.
What you got?
"Dear Floyd,
give 'em hell."
It's from Chief of
the Kokomo Police Department.
Right.
Whoa.
You've gotta
love cops.
Lipton:
Alright, listen up, listen up.
If you did not sign your
GI life insurance policy,
you go on over
and see Sergeant Evans
at the Headquarters
Company tent.
You boys don't
let your families
miss out on $10,000.
You hear that, Gerry?
Hey, Lip?
Yeah, boy.
Has Guarnere said anything
to you about his brother?
No.
I got a problem.
My wife keeps up
with things back home,
casualty lists
and like that.
Yeah?
Guarnere's brother
in Italy?
Henry?
Killed in
Monte Cassino.
Well, I'm sure
he doesn't know.
Damn. What'd you think
I should do?
If it were me,
I'd tell him.
Couple of hours
before we jump?
I don't know.
Why they springing
these things on us now?
It's just an extra 80 pounds
strapped to your leg.
Does anybody have any idea
how the hell this thing works?
Vest:
Colonel Sink.
(mimics Sink)
"Soldiers of the regiment:
"Tonight is the night...
(normal voice)
"of nights.
"Today, as you read this,
you are en route
"to the great adventure
for which you have trained
"for over two years."
So, that's why
they gave us ice cream.
Meehan:
Easy Company,
listen up!
Channel coast is socked in
with rain and fog.
No jump tonight.
The invasion
has been postponed.
We're on a 24-hour
stand-down.
Well... this is
quite a surprise.
Not particularly.
It so happens
I rather expected it.
Man on film:
Well, I can't see
how you people
can pass up $80,000
for the cause.
Woman:
For whose cause?
If you're so interested
in serving a cause,
why don't you
join the army?
Woman 2:
Next, please.
Man: Oh.
"4F."
Woman 2:
You look "1A" to me.
Hey, you don't
look so bad yourself.
(chuckles)
"Dearest Johnny."
Woman on film:
Well, should you
be giving blood?
Man:
I woke up.
Woman:
Something happened--
I got the wrong
goddamn jacket.
Shh.
Woman: I was struck
by lightning.
(music playing on film)
Man:
Nobody dancing.
It doesn't
matter.
"Your pal,
Bill Guarnere's brother..."
Man on film:
Remember this.
I didn't lie to you,
but you were right,
and I was wrong.
(panting)
Man on film:
You'll get everything
you want.
You'll get enough to build
two ships, maybe three.
(woman speaks indiscernibly)
♪ ♪
Good luck, lads.
See you, Tommy.
Give Jerry one for me.
Try and get these
leg straps through.
Johnny?
Got something you might
be looking for.
Took your jacket
by mistake.
I'm sorry.
You read it?
Where the fuck is
Monte Cassino?
I don't know.
Italy somewhere.
Sorry about
your brother, Bill.
I'm sorry for my ma.
He was, uh...
Let's get
this over with.
Bill?
I'll meet up
with you over there.
Gentlemen, Doc Roe is handing
these out for air sickness.
Orders are, every man
takes one now,
another 30 minutes
in the air.
Lieutenant.
2nd platoon,
listen up.
Good luck.
God bless you.
I'll see you in
the assembly area.
♪ ♪
If the wire constant
is successful,
then I think all we should
have to deal with is...
Goddamn, Lieb.
That airsick pill
is making me loopy.
(rattling)
♪ ♪
(theme music playing)